website/source/docs/post-processors/vsphere.html.md, before:

---
description: |
    The Packer vSphere post-processor takes an artifact from the VMware builder and
    uploads it to a vSphere endpoint.
layout: docs
page_title: 'vSphere Post-Processor'
...

# vSphere Post-Processor

Type: `vsphere`

The Packer vSphere post-processor takes an artifact from the VMware builder and
uploads it to a vSphere endpoint.

## Configuration

There are many configuration options available for the post-processor. They are
segmented below into two categories: required and optional parameters. Within
each category, the available configuration keys are alphabetized.

Required:

-   `cluster` (string) - The cluster to upload the VM to.

-   `datacenter` (string) - The name of the datacenter within vSphere to add the
    VM to.

-   `datastore` (string) - The name of the datastore to store this VM. This is
    *not required* if `resource_pool` is specified.

-   `host` (string) - The vSphere host that will be contacted to perform the
    VM upload.

-   `password` (string) - Password to use to authenticate to the
    vSphere endpoint.

-   `resource_pool` (string) - The resource pool to upload the VM to. This is
    *not required*.

-   `username` (string) - The username to use to authenticate to the
    vSphere endpoint.

-   `vm_name` (string) - The name of the VM once it is uploaded.

Optional:

-   `convert_to_template` (boolean) - Whether or not the VM created in vSphere should be converted to a template.

-   `disk_mode` (string) - Target disk format. See `ovftool` manual for
    available options. By default, "thick" will be used.

-   `insecure` (boolean) - Whether or not the connection to vSphere can be done
    over an insecure connection. By default this is false.

-   `vm_folder` (string) - The folder within the datastore to store the VM.

-   `vm_network` (string) - The name of the VM network this VM will be
  added to.

-   `overwrite` (boolean) - If it's true force the system to overwrite the
  existing files instead create new ones. Default is false

-   `options` (array of strings) - Custom options to add in ovftool. See `ovftool
  --help` to list all the options

Commit message:

Update docs with default value for vsphere convert_to_template

website/source/docs/post-processors/vsphere.html.md, after:

---
description: |
    The Packer vSphere post-processor takes an artifact from the VMware builder and
    uploads it to a vSphere endpoint.
layout: docs
page_title: 'vSphere Post-Processor'
...

# vSphere Post-Processor

Type: `vsphere`

The Packer vSphere post-processor takes an artifact from the VMware builder and
uploads it to a vSphere endpoint.

## Configuration

There are many configuration options available for the post-processor. They are
segmented below into two categories: required and optional parameters. Within
each category, the available configuration keys are alphabetized.

Required:

-   `cluster` (string) - The cluster to upload the VM to.

-   `datacenter` (string) - The name of the datacenter within vSphere to add the
    VM to.

-   `datastore` (string) - The name of the datastore to store this VM. This is
    *not required* if `resource_pool` is specified.

-   `host` (string) - The vSphere host that will be contacted to perform the
    VM upload.

-   `password` (string) - Password to use to authenticate to the
    vSphere endpoint.

-   `resource_pool` (string) - The resource pool to upload the VM to. This is
    *not required*.

-   `username` (string) - The username to use to authenticate to the
    vSphere endpoint.

-   `vm_name` (string) - The name of the VM once it is uploaded.

Optional:

-   `convert_to_template` (boolean) - Whether or not the VM created in
    vSphere should be converted to a template. By default this is false.

-   `disk_mode` (string) - Target disk format. See `ovftool` manual for
    available options. By default, "thick" will be used.

-   `insecure` (boolean) - Whether or not the connection to vSphere can be done
    over an insecure connection. By default this is false.

-   `vm_folder` (string) - The folder within the datastore to store the VM.

-   `vm_network` (string) - The name of the VM network this VM will be
  added to.

-   `overwrite` (boolean) - If it's true force the system to overwrite the
  existing files instead create new ones. Default is false

-   `options` (array of strings) - Custom options to add in ovftool. See `ovftool
  --help` to list all the options
