---
description: |
  The proxmox Packer builder is able to create new images for use with
  Proxmox VE. The builder takes an ISO source, runs any provisioning
  necessary on the image after launching it, then creates a virtual machine
  template.
page_title: Proxmox ISO - Builders
sidebar_title: ISO
---

# Proxmox Builder (from an ISO)

Type: `proxmox-iso`

The `proxmox-iso` Packer builder is able to create new images for use with
[Proxmox](https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve). The builder takes an ISO
image, runs any provisioning necessary on the image after launching it, then
creates a virtual machine template. This template can then be used as to
create new virtual machines within Proxmox.

The builder does _not_ manage templates. Once it creates a template, it is up
to you to use it or delete it.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the builder. They are
segmented below into two categories: required and optional parameters. Within
each category, the available configuration keys are alphabetized.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/communicator) can be configured for this
builder.

### Required:

- `proxmox_url` (string) - URL to the Proxmox API, including the full path,
  so `https://<server>:<port>/api2/json` for example.
  Can also be set via the `PROXMOX_URL` environment variable.

- `username` (string) - Username when authenticating to Proxmox, including
  the realm. For example `user@pve` to use the local Proxmox realm.
  Can also be set via the `PROXMOX_USERNAME` environment variable.

- `password` (string) - Password for the user.
  Can also be set via the `PROXMOX_PASSWORD` environment variable.

- `node` (string) - Which node in the Proxmox cluster to start the virtual
  machine on during creation.

- `iso_file` (string) - Path to the ISO file to boot from, expressed as a
  proxmox datastore path, for example
  `local:iso/Fedora-Server-dvd-x86_64-29-1.2.iso`.
  Either `iso_file` OR `iso_url` must be specifed.

- `iso_url` (string) - URL to an ISO file to upload to Proxmox, and then
  boot from. Either `iso_file` OR `iso_url` must be specifed.

- `iso_storage_pool` (string) - Proxmox storage pool onto which to upload
  the ISO file.

- `iso_checksum` (string) - Checksum of the ISO file. Type of the checksum
  is infered based on string length, or can be explicitly prefixed with
  md5:, sha1:, sha256:, sha512: or set to none. Corruption of large files,
  such as ISOs, can occur during transfer from time to time. As such,
  setting this to none is not recommended.

### Optional:

- `insecure_skip_tls_verify` (bool) - Skip validating the certificate.

- `pool` (string) - Name of resource pool to create virtual machine in.

- `vm_name` (string) - Name of the virtual machine during creation. If not
  given, a random uuid will be used.

- `vm_id` (int) - The ID used to reference the virtual machine. This will
  also be the ID of the final template. If not given, the next free ID on
  the node will be used.

- `memory` (int) - How much memory, in megabytes, to give the virtual
  machine. Defaults to `512`.

- `cores` (int) - How many CPU cores to give the virtual machine. Defaults
  to `1`.

- `sockets` (int) - How many CPU sockets to give the virtual machine.
  Defaults to `1`

- `cpu_type` (string) - The CPU type to emulate. See the Proxmox API
  documentation for the complete list of accepted values. For best
  performance, set this to `host`. Defaults to `kvm64`.

- `os` (string) - The operating system. Can be `wxp`, `w2k`, `w2k3`, `w2k8`,
  `wvista`, `win7`, `win8`, `win10`, `l24` (Linux 2.4), `l26` (Linux 2.6+),
  `solaris` or `other`. Defaults to `other`.

- `vga` (object) - The graphics adapter to use. Example:

  ```json
  {
    "type": "vmware",
    "memory": 32
  }
  ```

  - `type` (string) - Can be `cirrus`, `none`, `qxl`,`qxl2`, `qxl3`,
    `qxl4`, `serial0`, `serial1`, `serial2`, `serial3`, `std`, `virtio`, `vmware`.
    Defaults to `std`.

  - `memory` (int) - How much memory to assign.

- `network_adapters` (array of objects) - Network adapters attached to the
  virtual machine. Example:

  ```json
  [
    {
      "model": "virtio",
      "bridge": "vmbr0",
      "vlan_tag": "10",
      "firewall": true
    }
  ]
  ```

  - `bridge` (string) - Required. Which Proxmox bridge to attach the
    adapter to.

  - `model` (string) - Model of the virtual network adapter. Can be
    `rtl8139`, `ne2k_pci`, `e1000`, `pcnet`, `virtio`, `ne2k_isa`,
    `i82551`, `i82557b`, `i82559er`, `vmxnet3`, `e1000-82540em`,
    `e1000-82544gc` or `e1000-82545em`. Defaults to `e1000`.

  - `mac_address` (string) - Give the adapter a specific MAC address. If
    not set, defaults to a random MAC.

  - `vlan_tag` (string) - If the adapter should tag packets. Defaults to
    no tagging.

  - `firewall` (bool) - If the interface should be protected by the firewall.
    Defaults to `false`.

  - `packet_queues` (int) - Number of packet queues to be used on the device.
    Values greater than 1 indicate that the multiqueue feature is activated.
    For best performance, set this to the number of cores available to the
    virtual machine. CPU load on the host and guest systems will increase as
    the traffic increases, so activate this option only when the VM has to
    handle a great number of incoming connections, such as when the VM is
    operating as a router, reverse proxy or a busy HTTP server. Requires
    `virtio` network adapter. Defaults to `0`.

- `disks` (array of objects) - Disks attached to the virtual machine.
  Example:

  ```json
  [
    {
      "type": "scsi",
      "disk_size": "5G",
      "storage_pool": "local-lvm",
      "storage_pool_type": "lvm"
    }
  ]
  ```

  - `storage_pool` (string) - Required. Name of the Proxmox storage pool
    to store the virtual machine disk on. A `local-lvm` pool is allocated
    by the installer, for example.

  - `storage_pool_type` (string) - Required. The type of the pool, can
    be `lvm`, `lvm-thin`, `zfspool`, `cephfs`, `rbd` or `directory`.

  - `type` (string) - The type of disk. Can be `scsi`, `sata`, `virtio` or
    `ide`. Defaults to `scsi`.

  - `disk_size` (string) - The size of the disk, including a unit suffix, such
    as `10G` to indicate 10 gigabytes.

  - `cache_mode` (string) - How to cache operations to the disk. Can be
    `none`, `writethrough`, `writeback`, `unsafe` or `directsync`.
    Defaults to `none`.

  - `format` (string) - The format of the file backing the disk. Can be
    `raw`, `cow`, `qcow`, `qed`, `qcow2`, `vmdk` or `cloop`. Defaults to
    `raw`.

  - `io_thread` (bool) - Create one I/O thread per storage controller, rather
    than a single thread for all I/O. This can increase performance when
    multiple disks are used. Requires `virtio-scsi-single` controller and a
    `scsi` or `virtio` disk. Defaults to `false`.

- `template_name` (string) - Name of the template. Defaults to the generated
  name used during creation.

- `template_description` (string) - Description of the template, visible in
  the Proxmox interface.

- `unmount_iso` (bool) - If true, remove the mounted ISO from the template
  after finishing. Defaults to `false`.

- `onboot` (boolean) - Specifies whether a VM will be started during system
  bootup. Defaults to `false`.

- `qemu_agent` (boolean) - Disables QEMU Agent option for this VM. When enabled,
  then `qemu-guest-agent` must be installed on the guest. When disabled, then
  `ssh_host` should be used. Defaults to `true`.

- `disable_kvm` (boolean) - Disables KVM hardware virtualization. Defaults to `false`.

- `scsi_controller` (string) - The SCSI controller model to emulate. Can be `lsi`,
  `lsi53c810`, `virtio-scsi-pci`, `virtio-scsi-single`, `megasas`, or `pvscsi`.
  Defaults to `lsi`.

- `cloud_init` (bool) - If true, add a Cloud-Init CDROM drive after the virtual machine has been converted to a template.
   Defaults to `false`.

- `cloud_init_storage_pool` - (string) - Name of the Proxmox storage pool
  to store the Cloud-Init CDROM on. If not given, the storage pool of the boot device will be used.

- `additional_iso_files` (array of objects) - Additional ISO files attached to the virtual machine.
  Example:

  ```json
  [
    {
      "device": "scsi5",
      "iso_file": "local:iso/virtio-win-0.1.185.iso",
      "unmount": true,
      "iso_checksum": "af2b3cc9fa7905dea5e58d31508d75bba717c2b0d5553962658a47aebc9cc386"
    }
  ]
  ```

  - `device` (string) - Bus type and bus index that the ISO will be mounted on. Can be `ideX`,
    `sataX` or `scsiX`.
    For `ide` the bus index ranges from 0 to 3, for `sata` form 0 to 5 and for
    `scsi` from 0 to 30.
    Defaults to `ide3` since `ide2` is generelly the boot drive.

  - `iso_file` (string) - Path to the ISO file to boot from, expressed as a
    proxmox datastore path, for example
    `local:iso/Fedora-Server-dvd-x86_64-29-1.2.iso`.
    Either `iso_file` OR `iso_url` must be specifed.

  - `iso_url` (string) - URL to an ISO file to upload to Proxmox, and then
    boot from. Either `iso_file` OR `iso_url` must be specifed.

  - `iso_storage_pool` (string) - Proxmox storage pool onto which to upload
    the ISO file.

  - `iso_checksum` (string) - Checksum of the ISO file.
  - `unmount` (bool) - If true, remove the mounted ISO from the template after finishing. Defaults to `false`.

- `http_interface` - (string) - Name of the network interface that Packer gets
  `HTTPIP` from. Defaults to the first non loopback interface.

- `vm_interface` - (string) - Name of the network interface that Packer gets
  the VMs IP from. Defaults to the first non loopback interface.

- `boot` - (string) - Override default boot order. Format example `order=virtio0;ide2;net0`.
  Prior to Proxmox 6.2-15 the format was `cdn` (c:CDROM -> d:Disk -> n:Network)

## Boot Command

The `boot_command` configuration is very important: it specifies the keys to
type when the virtual machine is first booted in order to start the OS
installer. This command is typed after `boot_wait`, which gives the virtual
machine some time to actually load the ISO.

As documented above, the `boot_command` is an array of strings. The strings
are all typed in sequence. It is an array only to improve readability within
the template.

The boot command is "typed" character for character over the virtual keyboard
to the machine, simulating a human actually typing the keyboard.

@include 'builders/boot-command.mdx'

The example shown below is a working boot command used to start an Ubuntu
12.04 installer:

```json
[
  "<esc><esc><enter><wait>",
  "/install/vmlinuz noapic ",
  "preseed/url=http://{{ .HTTPIP }}:{{ .HTTPPort }}/preseed.cfg ",
  "debian-installer=en_US auto locale=en_US kbd-chooser/method=us ",
  "hostname={{ .Name }} ",
  "fb=false debconf/frontend=noninteractive ",
  "keyboard-configuration/modelcode=SKIP keyboard-configuration/layout=USA ",
  "keyboard-configuration/variant=USA console-setup/ask_detect=false ",
  "initrd=/install/initrd.gz -- <enter>"
]
```

For more examples of various boot commands, see the sample projects from our
[community templates page](/community-tools#templates).

## Http directory configuration

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/HTTPConfig.mdx'

### Optional:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/HTTPConfig-not-required.mdx'

## Example: Fedora with kickstart

Here is a basic example creating a Fedora 29 server image with a Kickstart
file served with Packer's HTTP server. Note that the iso file needs to be
manually downloaded.

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "username": "apiuser@pve",
    "password": "supersecret"
  },
  "builders": [
    {
      "type": "proxmox",
      "proxmox_url": "https://my-proxmox.my-domain:8006/api2/json",
      "insecure_skip_tls_verify": true,
      "username": "{{user `username`}}",
      "password": "{{user `password`}}",

      "node": "my-proxmox",
      "network_adapters": [
        {
          "bridge": "vmbr0"
        }
      ],
      "disks": [
        {
          "type": "scsi",
          "disk_size": "5G",
          "storage_pool": "local-lvm",
          "storage_pool_type": "lvm"
        }
      ],

      "iso_file": "local:iso/Fedora-Server-dvd-x86_64-29-1.2.iso",
      "http_directory": "config",
      "boot_wait": "10s",
      "boot_command": [
        "<up><tab> ip=dhcp inst.cmdline inst.ks=http://{{.HTTPIP}}:{{.HTTPPort}}/ks.cfg<enter>"
      ],

      "ssh_username": "root",
      "ssh_timeout": "15m",
      "ssh_password": "packer",

      "unmount_iso": true,
      "template_name": "fedora-29",
      "template_description": "Fedora 29-1.2, generated on {{ isotime \"2006-01-02T15:04:05Z\" }}"
    }
  ]
}
```
