website/source/docs/builders/amazon-ebs.html.md, before:

---
description: |
    The `amazon-ebs` Packer builder is able to create Amazon AMIs backed by EBS
    volumes for use in EC2. For more information on the difference between
    EBS-backed instances and instance-store backed instances, see the storage for
    the root device section in the EC2 documentation.
layout: docs
page_title: 'Amazon AMI Builder (EBS backed)'
...

# AMI Builder (EBS backed)

Type: `amazon-ebs`

The `amazon-ebs` Packer builder is able to create Amazon AMIs backed by EBS
volumes for use in [EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/). For more information on
the difference between EBS-backed instances and instance-store backed instances,
see the ["storage for the root device" section in the EC2
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ComponentsAMIs.html#storage-for-the-root-device).

This builder builds an AMI by launching an EC2 instance from a source AMI,
provisioning that running machine, and then creating an AMI from that machine.
This is all done in your own AWS account. The builder will create temporary
keypairs, security group rules, etc. that provide it temporary access to the
instance while the image is being created. This simplifies configuration quite a
bit.

The builder does *not* manage AMIs. Once it creates an AMI and stores it in your
account, it is up to you to use, delete, etc. the AMI.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the builder. They are
segmented below into two categories: required and optional parameters. Within
each category, the available configuration keys are alphabetized.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/communicator.html) can be configured for this
builder.

### Required:

-   `access_key` (string) - The access key used to communicate with AWS. [Learn
    how to set this.](/docs/builders/amazon.html#specifying-amazon-credentials)

-   `ami_name` (string) - The name of the resulting AMI that will appear when
    managing AMIs in the AWS console or via APIs. This must be unique. To help
    make this unique, use a function like `timestamp` (see [configuration
    templates](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html) for more info)

-   `instance_type` (string) - The EC2 instance type to use while building the
    AMI, such as "m1.small".

-   `region` (string) - The name of the region, such as "us-east-1", in which to
    launch the EC2 instance to create the AMI.

-   `secret_key` (string) - The secret key used to communicate with AWS. [Learn
    how to set this.](/docs/builders/amazon.html#specifying-amazon-credentials)

-   `source_ami` (string) - The initial AMI used as a base for the newly
    created machine.

-   `ssh_username` (string) - The username to use in order to communicate over
    SSH to the running machine.

### Optional:

-   `ami_block_device_mappings` (array of block device mappings) - Add the block
    device mappings to the AMI. The block device mappings allow for keys:

    -   `device_name` (string) - The device name exposed to the instance (for
         example, "/dev/sdh" or "xvdh"). Required when specifying `volume_size`.
    -   `delete_on_termination` (boolean) - Indicates whether the EBS volume is
        deleted on instance termination
    -   `encrypted` (boolean) - Indicates whether to encrypt the volume or not
    -   `iops` (integer) - The number of I/O operations per second (IOPS) that the
        volume supports. See the documentation on
        [IOPs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_EbsBlockDevice.html)
        for more information
    -   `no_device` (boolean) - Suppresses the specified device included in the
        block device mapping of the AMI
    -   `snapshot_id` (string) - The ID of the snapshot
    -   `virtual_name` (string) - The virtual device name. See the documentation on
        [Block Device
        Mapping](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_BlockDeviceMapping.html)
        for more information
    -   `volume_size` (integer) - The size of the volume, in GiB. Required if not
        specifying a `snapshot_id`
    -   `volume_type` (string) - The volume type. gp2 for General Purpose (SSD)
        volumes, io1 for Provisioned IOPS (SSD) volumes, and standard for Magnetic
        volumes
-   `ami_description` (string) - The description to set for the
    resulting AMI(s). By default this description is empty.

-   `ami_groups` (array of strings) - A list of groups that have access to
    launch the resulting AMI(s). By default no groups have permission to launch
    the AMI. `all` will make the AMI publicly accessible. AWS currently doesn't
    accept any value other than "all".

-   `ami_product_codes` (array of strings) - A list of product codes to
    associate with the AMI. By default no product codes are associated with
    the AMI.

-   `ami_regions` (array of strings) - A list of regions to copy the AMI to.
    Tags and attributes are copied along with the AMI. AMI copying takes time
    depending on the size of the AMI, but will generally take many minutes.

-   `ami_users` (array of strings) - A list of account IDs that have access to
    launch the resulting AMI(s). By default no additional users other than the
    user creating the AMI has permissions to launch it.

-   `associate_public_ip_address` (boolean) - If using a non-default VPC, public
    IP addresses are not provided by default. If this is toggled, your new
    instance will get a Public IP.

-   `availability_zone` (string) - Destination availability zone to launch
    instance in. Leave this empty to allow Amazon to auto-assign.

-   `disable_stop_instance` (boolean) - Packer normally stops the build instance
    after all provisioners have run. For Windows instances, it is sometimes
    desirable to [run Sysprep](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/ami-create-standard.html)
    which will stop the instance for you. If this is set to true, Packer *will not*
    stop the instance and will wait for you to stop it manually. You can do this
    with a [windows-shell provisioner](https://www.packer.io/docs/provisioners/windows-shell.html).

    ``` {.javascript}
    {
      "type": "windows-shell",
      "inline": ["\"c:\\Program Files\\Amazon\\Ec2ConfigService\\ec2config.exe\" -sysprep"]
    }```

-   `ebs_optimized` (boolean) - Mark instance as [EBS
    Optimized](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSOptimized.html).
    Default `false`.

-   `enhanced_networking` (boolean) - Enable enhanced
    networking (SriovNetSupport) on HVM-compatible AMIs. If true, add
    `ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute` to your AWS IAM policy.

-   `force_deregister` (boolean) - Force Packer to first deregister an existing
    AMI if one with the same name already exists. Default `false`.

-   `iam_instance_profile` (string) - The name of an [IAM instance
    profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/instance-profiles.html)
    to launch the EC2 instance with.

-   `launch_block_device_mappings` (array of block device mappings) - Add the
    block device mappings to the launch instance. The block device mappings are
    the same as `ami_block_device_mappings` above.

-   `run_tags` (object of key/value strings) - Tags to apply to the instance
    that is *launched* to create the AMI. These tags are *not* applied to the
    resulting AMI unless they're duplicated in `tags`.

-   `run_volume_tags` (object of key/value strings) - Tags to apply to the volumes
    that are *launched* to create the AMI. These tags are *not* applied to the
    resulting AMI unless they're duplicated in `tags`.

-   `security_group_id` (string) - The ID (*not* the name) of the security group
    to assign to the instance. By default this is not set and Packer will
    automatically create a new temporary security group to allow SSH access.
    Note that if this is specified, you must be sure the security group allows
    access to the `ssh_port` given below.

-   `security_group_ids` (array of strings) - A list of security groups as
    described above. Note that if this is specified, you must omit the
    `security_group_id`.

-   `skip_region_validation` (boolean) - Set to true if you want to skip 
    validation of the region configuration option.  Defaults to false.

-   `spot_price` (string) - The maximum hourly price to pay for a spot instance
    to create the AMI. Spot instances are a type of instance that EC2 starts
    when the current spot price is less than the maximum price you specify. Spot
    price will be updated based on available spot instance capacity and current
    spot instance requests. It may save you some costs. You can set this to
    "auto" for Packer to automatically discover the best spot price or to "0"
    to use an on demand instance (default).

-   `spot_price_auto_product` (string) - Required if `spot_price` is set
    to "auto". This tells Packer what sort of AMI you're launching to find the
    best spot price. This must be one of: `Linux/UNIX`, `SUSE Linux`, `Windows`,
    `Linux/UNIX (Amazon VPC)`, `SUSE Linux (Amazon VPC)`, `Windows (Amazon VPC)`

-   `ssh_keypair_name` (string) - If specified, this is the key that will be
    used for SSH with the machine. By default, this is blank, and Packer will
    generate a temporary keypair.
    [`ssh_private_key_file`](/docs/templates/communicator.html#ssh_private_key_file)
    must be specified with this.

-   `ssh_private_ip` (boolean) - If true, then SSH will always use the private
    IP if available.

-   `subnet_id` (string) - If using VPC, the ID of the subnet, such as
    "subnet-12345def", where Packer will launch the EC2 instance. This field is
    required if you are using an non-default VPC.

-   `tags` (object of key/value strings) - Tags applied to the AMI and
    relevant snapshots.

-   `temporary_key_pair_name` (string) - The name of the temporary keypair
    to generate. By default, Packer generates a name with a UUID.

-   `token` (string) - The access token to use. This is different from the
    access key and secret key. If you're not sure what this is, then you
    probably don't need it. This will also be read from the `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`
    environmental variable.

-   `user_data` (string) - User data to apply when launching the instance. Note
    that you need to be careful about escaping characters due to the templates
    being JSON. It is often more convenient to use `user_data_file`, instead.

-   `user_data_file` (string) - Path to a file that will be used for the user
    data when launching the instance.

-   `vpc_id` (string) - If launching into a VPC subnet, Packer needs the VPC ID
    in order to create a temporary security group within the VPC. Requires `subnet_id`
    to be set.

-   `windows_password_timeout` (string) - The timeout for waiting for a Windows
    password for Windows instances. Defaults to 20 minutes. Example value: "10m"

-   `shutdown_behaviour` (string) - Automatically terminate instances on shutdown
    incase packer exits ungracefully. Possible values are "stop" and "terminate",
    default is stop.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. You will need to provide access keys, and may need to change the AMI IDs according to what images exist at the time the template is run:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "amazon-ebs",
  "access_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
  "secret_key": "YOUR SECRET KEY HERE",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "source_ami": "ami-fce3c696",
  "instance_type": "t2.micro",
  "ssh_username": "ubuntu",
  "ami_name": "packer-quick-start {{timestamp}}"
}
```

-&gt; **Note:** Packer can also read the access key and secret access key from
environmental variables. See the configuration reference in the section above
for more information on what environmental variables Packer will look for.

Further information on locating AMI IDs and their relationship to instance types and regions can be found in the AWS EC2 Documentation [for Linux](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/finding-an-ami.html) or [for Windows](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/finding-an-ami.html).

## Accessing the Instance to Debug

If you need to access the instance to debug for some reason, run the builder
with the `-debug` flag. In debug mode, the Amazon builder will save the private
key in the current directory and will output the DNS or IP information as well.
You can use this information to access the instance as it is running.

## AMI Block Device Mappings Example

Here is an example using the optional AMI block device mappings. This will add
the /dev/sdb and /dev/sdc block device mappings to the finished AMI. As with the basic example, you will need to provide access keys and may need to change the source AMI ID based on what images exist when this template is run:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "amazon-ebs",
  "access_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
  "secret_key": "YOUR SECRET KEY HERE",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "source_ami": "ami-fce3c696",
  "instance_type": "t2.micro",
  "ssh_username": "ubuntu",
  "ami_name": "packer-quick-start {{timestamp}}",
  "ami_block_device_mappings": [
    {
      "device_name": "/dev/sdb",
      "virtual_name": "ephemeral0"
    },
    {
      "device_name": "/dev/sdc",
      "virtual_name": "ephemeral1"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Tag Example

Here is an example using the optional AMI tags. This will add the tags
"OS\_Version" and "Release" to the finished AMI. As before, you will need to provide your access keys, and may need to change the source AMI ID based on what images exist when this template is run:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "amazon-ebs",
  "access_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
  "secret_key": "YOUR SECRET KEY HERE",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "source_ami": "ami-fce3c696",
  "instance_type": "t2.micro",
  "ssh_username": "ubuntu",
  "ami_name": "packer-quick-start {{timestamp}}",
  "tags": {
    "OS_Version": "Ubuntu",
    "Release": "Latest"
  }
}
```

-&gt; **Note:** Packer uses pre-built AMIs as the source for building images.
These source AMIs may include volumes that are not flagged to be destroyed on
termination of the instance building the new image. Packer will attempt to clean
up all residual volumes that are not designated by the user to remain after
termination. If you need to preserve those source volumes, you can overwrite the
termination setting by specifying `delete_on_termination=false` in the
`launch_device_mappings` block for the device.

Commit message:

Support for associating EC2 instances with an EIP.

website/source/docs/builders/amazon-ebs.html.md, after:

---
description: |
    The `amazon-ebs` Packer builder is able to create Amazon AMIs backed by EBS
    volumes for use in EC2. For more information on the difference between
    EBS-backed instances and instance-store backed instances, see the storage for
    the root device section in the EC2 documentation.
layout: docs
page_title: 'Amazon AMI Builder (EBS backed)'
...

# AMI Builder (EBS backed)

Type: `amazon-ebs`

The `amazon-ebs` Packer builder is able to create Amazon AMIs backed by EBS
volumes for use in [EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/). For more information on
the difference between EBS-backed instances and instance-store backed instances,
see the ["storage for the root device" section in the EC2
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ComponentsAMIs.html#storage-for-the-root-device).

This builder builds an AMI by launching an EC2 instance from a source AMI,
provisioning that running machine, and then creating an AMI from that machine.
This is all done in your own AWS account. The builder will create temporary
keypairs, security group rules, etc. that provide it temporary access to the
instance while the image is being created. This simplifies configuration quite a
bit.

The builder does *not* manage AMIs. Once it creates an AMI and stores it in your
account, it is up to you to use, delete, etc. the AMI.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the builder. They are
segmented below into two categories: required and optional parameters. Within
each category, the available configuration keys are alphabetized.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/communicator.html) can be configured for this
builder.

### Required:

-   `access_key` (string) - The access key used to communicate with AWS. [Learn
    how to set this.](/docs/builders/amazon.html#specifying-amazon-credentials)

-   `ami_name` (string) - The name of the resulting AMI that will appear when
    managing AMIs in the AWS console or via APIs. This must be unique. To help
    make this unique, use a function like `timestamp` (see [configuration
    templates](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html) for more info)

-   `instance_type` (string) - The EC2 instance type to use while building the
    AMI, such as "m1.small".

-   `region` (string) - The name of the region, such as "us-east-1", in which to
    launch the EC2 instance to create the AMI.

-   `secret_key` (string) - The secret key used to communicate with AWS. [Learn
    how to set this.](/docs/builders/amazon.html#specifying-amazon-credentials)

-   `source_ami` (string) - The initial AMI used as a base for the newly
    created machine.

-   `ssh_username` (string) - The username to use in order to communicate over
    SSH to the running machine.

### Optional:

-   `ami_block_device_mappings` (array of block device mappings) - Add the block
    device mappings to the AMI. The block device mappings allow for keys:

    -   `device_name` (string) - The device name exposed to the instance (for
         example, "/dev/sdh" or "xvdh"). Required when specifying `volume_size`.
    -   `delete_on_termination` (boolean) - Indicates whether the EBS volume is
        deleted on instance termination
    -   `encrypted` (boolean) - Indicates whether to encrypt the volume or not
    -   `iops` (integer) - The number of I/O operations per second (IOPS) that the
        volume supports. See the documentation on
        [IOPs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_EbsBlockDevice.html)
        for more information
    -   `no_device` (boolean) - Suppresses the specified device included in the
        block device mapping of the AMI
    -   `snapshot_id` (string) - The ID of the snapshot
    -   `virtual_name` (string) - The virtual device name. See the documentation on
        [Block Device
        Mapping](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_BlockDeviceMapping.html)
        for more information
    -   `volume_size` (integer) - The size of the volume, in GiB. Required if not
        specifying a `snapshot_id`
    -   `volume_type` (string) - The volume type. gp2 for General Purpose (SSD)
        volumes, io1 for Provisioned IOPS (SSD) volumes, and standard for Magnetic
        volumes
-   `ami_description` (string) - The description to set for the
    resulting AMI(s). By default this description is empty.

-   `ami_groups` (array of strings) - A list of groups that have access to
    launch the resulting AMI(s). By default no groups have permission to launch
    the AMI. `all` will make the AMI publicly accessible. AWS currently doesn't
    accept any value other than "all".

-   `ami_product_codes` (array of strings) - A list of product codes to
    associate with the AMI. By default no product codes are associated with
    the AMI.

-   `ami_regions` (array of strings) - A list of regions to copy the AMI to.
    Tags and attributes are copied along with the AMI. AMI copying takes time
    depending on the size of the AMI, but will generally take many minutes.

-   `ami_users` (array of strings) - A list of account IDs that have access to
    launch the resulting AMI(s). By default no additional users other than the
    user creating the AMI has permissions to launch it.

-   `associate_public_ip_address` (boolean) - If using a non-default VPC, public
    IP addresses are not provided by default. If this is toggled, your new
    instance will get a Public IP.

-   `availability_zone` (string) - Destination availability zone to launch
    instance in. Leave this empty to allow Amazon to auto-assign.

-   `disable_stop_instance` (boolean) - Packer normally stops the build instance
    after all provisioners have run. For Windows instances, it is sometimes
    desirable to [run Sysprep](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/ami-create-standard.html)
    which will stop the instance for you. If this is set to true, Packer *will not*
    stop the instance and will wait for you to stop it manually. You can do this
    with a [windows-shell provisioner](https://www.packer.io/docs/provisioners/windows-shell.html).

    ``` {.javascript}
    {
      "type": "windows-shell",
      "inline": ["\"c:\\Program Files\\Amazon\\Ec2ConfigService\\ec2config.exe\" -sysprep"]
    }```

-   `ebs_optimized` (boolean) - Mark instance as [EBS
    Optimized](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSOptimized.html).
    Default `false`.

-   `enhanced_networking` (boolean) - Enable enhanced
    networking (SriovNetSupport) on HVM-compatible AMIs. If true, add
    `ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute` to your AWS IAM policy.

-   `force_deregister` (boolean) - Force Packer to first deregister an existing
    AMI if one with the same name already exists. Default `false`.

-   `iam_instance_profile` (string) - The name of an [IAM instance
    profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/instance-profiles.html)
    to launch the EC2 instance with.

-   `launch_block_device_mappings` (array of block device mappings) - Add the
    block device mappings to the launch instance. The block device mappings are
    the same as `ami_block_device_mappings` above.

-   `run_tags` (object of key/value strings) - Tags to apply to the instance
    that is *launched* to create the AMI. These tags are *not* applied to the
    resulting AMI unless they're duplicated in `tags`.

-   `run_volume_tags` (object of key/value strings) - Tags to apply to the volumes
    that are *launched* to create the AMI. These tags are *not* applied to the
    resulting AMI unless they're duplicated in `tags`.

-   `security_group_id` (string) - The ID (*not* the name) of the security group
    to assign to the instance. By default this is not set and Packer will
    automatically create a new temporary security group to allow SSH access.
    Note that if this is specified, you must be sure the security group allows
    access to the `ssh_port` given below.

-   `security_group_ids` (array of strings) - A list of security groups as
    described above. Note that if this is specified, you must omit the
    `security_group_id`.

-   `skip_region_validation` (boolean) - Set to true if you want to skip 
    validation of the region configuration option.  Defaults to false.

-   `spot_price` (string) - The maximum hourly price to pay for a spot instance
    to create the AMI. Spot instances are a type of instance that EC2 starts
    when the current spot price is less than the maximum price you specify. Spot
    price will be updated based on available spot instance capacity and current
    spot instance requests. It may save you some costs. You can set this to
    "auto" for Packer to automatically discover the best spot price or to "0"
    to use an on demand instance (default).

-   `spot_price_auto_product` (string) - Required if `spot_price` is set
    to "auto". This tells Packer what sort of AMI you're launching to find the
    best spot price. This must be one of: `Linux/UNIX`, `SUSE Linux`, `Windows`,
    `Linux/UNIX (Amazon VPC)`, `SUSE Linux (Amazon VPC)`, `Windows (Amazon VPC)`

-   `ssh_keypair_name` (string) - If specified, this is the key that will be
    used for SSH with the machine. By default, this is blank, and Packer will
    generate a temporary keypair.
    [`ssh_private_key_file`](/docs/templates/communicator.html#ssh_private_key_file)
    must be specified with this.

-   `ssh_private_ip` (boolean) - If true, then SSH will always use the private
    IP if available.

-   `subnet_id` (string) - If using VPC, the ID of the subnet, such as
    "subnet-12345def", where Packer will launch the EC2 instance. This field is
    required if you are using an non-default VPC.

-   `tags` (object of key/value strings) - Tags applied to the AMI and
    relevant snapshots.

-   `temporary_key_pair_name` (string) - The name of the temporary keypair
    to generate. By default, Packer generates a name with a UUID.

-   `token` (string) - The access token to use. This is different from the
    access key and secret key. If you're not sure what this is, then you
    probably don't need it. This will also be read from the `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`
    environmental variable.

-   `user_data` (string) - User data to apply when launching the instance. Note
    that you need to be careful about escaping characters due to the templates
    being JSON. It is often more convenient to use `user_data_file`, instead.

-   `user_data_file` (string) - Path to a file that will be used for the user
    data when launching the instance.

-   `vpc_id` (string) - If launching into a VPC subnet, Packer needs the VPC ID
    in order to create a temporary security group within the VPC. Requires `subnet_id`
    to be set.

-   `eip_alloc_id` (string) - If using VPC, the ID of the Elastic IP, such as
    "eipalloc-12345def", which the EC2 instance will use to get a Public IP.

-   `eip_allow_reassociation` (boolean) - If using Elastic IP, allow Packer to
    reassociate the address that is already associated with an instance or network
    interface.

-   `windows_password_timeout` (string) - The timeout for waiting for a Windows
    password for Windows instances. Defaults to 20 minutes. Example value: "10m"

-   `shutdown_behaviour` (string) - Automatically terminate instances on shutdown
    incase packer exits ungracefully. Possible values are "stop" and "terminate",
    default is stop.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. You will need to provide access keys, and may need to change the AMI IDs according to what images exist at the time the template is run:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "amazon-ebs",
  "access_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
  "secret_key": "YOUR SECRET KEY HERE",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "source_ami": "ami-fce3c696",
  "instance_type": "t2.micro",
  "ssh_username": "ubuntu",
  "ami_name": "packer-quick-start {{timestamp}}"
}
```

-&gt; **Note:** Packer can also read the access key and secret access key from
environmental variables. See the configuration reference in the section above
for more information on what environmental variables Packer will look for.

Further information on locating AMI IDs and their relationship to instance types and regions can be found in the AWS EC2 Documentation [for Linux](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/finding-an-ami.html) or [for Windows](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/finding-an-ami.html).

## Accessing the Instance to Debug

If you need to access the instance to debug for some reason, run the builder
with the `-debug` flag. In debug mode, the Amazon builder will save the private
key in the current directory and will output the DNS or IP information as well.
You can use this information to access the instance as it is running.

## AMI Block Device Mappings Example

Here is an example using the optional AMI block device mappings. This will add
the /dev/sdb and /dev/sdc block device mappings to the finished AMI. As with the basic example, you will need to provide access keys and may need to change the source AMI ID based on what images exist when this template is run:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "amazon-ebs",
  "access_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
  "secret_key": "YOUR SECRET KEY HERE",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "source_ami": "ami-fce3c696",
  "instance_type": "t2.micro",
  "ssh_username": "ubuntu",
  "ami_name": "packer-quick-start {{timestamp}}",
  "ami_block_device_mappings": [
    {
      "device_name": "/dev/sdb",
      "virtual_name": "ephemeral0"
    },
    {
      "device_name": "/dev/sdc",
      "virtual_name": "ephemeral1"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Tag Example

Here is an example using the optional AMI tags. This will add the tags
"OS\_Version" and "Release" to the finished AMI. As before, you will need to provide your access keys, and may need to change the source AMI ID based on what images exist when this template is run:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "amazon-ebs",
  "access_key": "YOUR KEY HERE",
  "secret_key": "YOUR SECRET KEY HERE",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "source_ami": "ami-fce3c696",
  "instance_type": "t2.micro",
  "ssh_username": "ubuntu",
  "ami_name": "packer-quick-start {{timestamp}}",
  "tags": {
    "OS_Version": "Ubuntu",
    "Release": "Latest"
  }
}
```

-&gt; **Note:** Packer uses pre-built AMIs as the source for building images.
These source AMIs may include volumes that are not flagged to be destroyed on
termination of the instance building the new image. Packer will attempt to clean
up all residual volumes that are not designated by the user to remain after
termination. If you need to preserve those source volumes, you can overwrite the
termination setting by specifying `delete_on_termination=false` in the
`launch_device_mappings` block for the device.
